.TH notcurses-demo 1 "2019-12-25"
.SH NAME
notcurses-demo \- Show off some notcurses features
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B notcurses-demo
[ \fB\-p \fIpath \fR]
[ \fB\-d \fIdelaymult \fR]
[ \fB\-k \fR]
[ \fB\-c \fR]
[ \fB\-h / \fB\-\-help \fR]
.IR demospec
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-p \fIpath\fR
Look in the specified path for data files.
.TP
.BR \-d \fIdelaymult\fR
Apply a (floating-point) multiplier to the standard delay of 1s.
.TP
.BR \-H
Launch a HUD with running timers for each demo. This HUD can be moved or
closed with the mouse.
.TP
.BR \-k
Inhibit use of the alternate screen. Necessary if you want the output left
on your terminal after the program exits.
.TP
.BR \-c
Do not attempt to seed the PRNG. This is useful when benchmarking.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a usage message, and exit with success.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print the program name and version, and exit with success.
.TP
.IR demospec
Select which demos to run, and what order to run them in. The default is "ixemlubgswvpo". See below for a list of demos.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B notcurses-demo
contains a set of text-based demonstrations of capabilities from the notcurses library. The demonstrations include:
.P
(i)ntro—a setting of tone
.P
(x)ray—stimulate a logo with energy
.P
(e)agle—zoom in on a background from Ninja Gaiden
.P
(t)rans—an exploration of various transparencies
.P
(c)hunli—the day Bison came to her village, it was Tuesday
.P
(l)uigi-a dashing plumber of Apennine persuasion
.P
(u)niblocks—a series of blocks detailing Unicode pages
.P
(b)oxes—pulsating boxes with a transparent center
.P
(g)rid—a gradient of color lain atop a great grid
.P
(s)liders—a missing-piece puzzle made up of colorful blocks
.P
(w)hiteworm—a great Nothing slowly robs the world of color
.P
(v)iew—images and a video are rendered as text
.P
(p)anelreels—demonstration of the panelreel high-level widget
.P
(o)utro—a message of hope from the library's author
.P
At any time, press 'q' to quit. The demo is best run in at least a 80x45 terminal.
.SH NOTES
Proper display requires a terminal advertising the RGB terminfo(5) capability (necessary for specification of arbitrary 24bpp colors), and a monospaced font with good Unicode support.
.SH SEE ALSO
notcurses(3notcurses), ncurses(3ncurses), terminfo(5)
